## 2. Why use CRediT Taxonomy? 

Scholarly authorship covers a multitude of roles and tasks, which may be
distributed among members in the case of an authorship team.
Traditionally, individual contributions to a team-authored product have
not always been expressed formally in detail. CRediT allows for more
thorough and specific attribution in scientific scholarly publishing.
CRediT has implications for scholarly communication, research integrity
evaluation, metadata and indexing practices, and equity, diversity, and
inclusion initiatives. Two of the benefits cited in the literature (for
example, Koller, 2018 and Allen et al, 2019) are CRediT's ability to
boost transparency and bolster accountability within the publication
process.

Applying CRediT to publications can help others understand specific
roles played by those involved with a project, particularly as team-led
research becomes increasingly popular. It can facilitate accountability
within an authorship group as irregularities and errors can be
associated with specific contributor tasks or functions (for example,
Allen et al, 2019). Within the publication process, CRediT can decrease
the number of authorship disputes that frequently fall to journal
editors to resolve (for example, Craig, 2018). Applying the taxonomy can
also illustrate the distribution and diversity of labor involved in
generating a publication, making visible the work of those who were not
involved in writing the article but who did play critical roles in the
project (for example, Allen et al, 2019).

Multiple stakeholders are well-poised to see benefits from the
implementation of CRediT.

Publishers may see benefits from increased transparency and preventing
questionable authorship practices (for example, Koller, 2018). Many
journals already have a system in place requiring an author team to
submit the specific contributions of individuals; however, use of the
CRediT taxonomy would standardize this practice and make that layer open
to readers and databases for interpretation and extraction (Koller,
2018). Universities and institutes have the potential to develop more
tangible measures of impact as a whole as CRediT becomes more
widespread. Funders will be able to identify specific pockets of
expertise and a more transparent track record of contributions which
will build up over time. CRediT also has the potential to benefit
researchers themselves as using the taxonomy appropriately could help in
reducing collaborator disagreements and establishing expectations for
co-authorship early on in the process. Researchers can also benefit by
identifying potential collaborators and in placing further trust in the
research.

Finally, CRediT offers possibilities for users to adopt a critical
perspective toward traditional ideas about authorship and attribution
within scholarly publishing and may open the door for more equitable
processes in the future.
