## 4. Limitations of the CRedit Taxonomy

While an excellent tool, CRediT does have its limitations.

Researchers have already observed that while CRediT can make author
roles more transparent, it does not solve systemic problems in the
scholarly publication landscape. Importantly, implementing CRediT could
complicate the evaluation of contributions. Although CRediT can make
visible labor across teams, it does not begin to address the quantity or
quality of contributions that qualify for assigned roles. Additionally,
some have speculated that applying CRediT without parameters could lead
to a hierarchy of prestige around particular role types, leaving some in
the literature to ask "are some contributor roles valued more than
others?" (for example, Craig, 2018). CRediT may also perpetuate honorary
contributorship, such as gift authorship (for example, McNutt, et al,
2018).

As a relatively new tool, it is also unclear how researchers will
receive and ultimately buy in to adopting this taxonomy long-term. While
some researchers might be motivated by ideas of accountability and
transparency, others will want more pragmatic reasons for adoption,
which means that invested parties will need to make the benefits of
adopting CRediT clear to achieve continued buy-in.

Finally, some have questioned the applicability of the taxonomy across
disciplines (Gadd, 2020), as CRediT was initially developed and tested
in the biomedical and life-sciences. Future research is needed to see
how the taxonomy applies to other areas of scholarship. Currently, there
are analogous taxonomies designed for other disciplines, including CRO
and TaDIRAH (see Glossary).
